Emily Delcoure
HIST 491
Comment Jan. 22, 2018

It was a decent read, and by decent I mean it toed the line between repetitive pile of mush, and well-written cornucopia of information. I have decided to write my comment in the same style as this section of the book: repeating unique phrases I coined myself—that I thought were really witty—until even I don’t think they’re funny anymore. The section discussing Hitler’s role in the Holocaust was a great way to frame what a historiographical would look like in a real life setting. The questions that would accompany a traditionally historiographical discussion are indistinguishable from the questions that occur to a researcher in the throes of a thesis paper. Historiography is related to history, in that it is necessary to our critical understanding of our world. Anyone studying history, or writing research using historical sources should be asking themselves these questions!
Now that I’ve made my point on the writing structure... the writing style was not lacking, the prose was good and very easy to follow and understand—despite the density of the subject. The break down of information by topic (in lieu of chronologically) isn’t something that historians are used to, and maybe that is something Popkin should be addressing directly at some point. Not that I am critiquing Popkin’s organization, just that a simple acknowledgement of change would do wonders to underline the more complex issues within historiography and just how different it really is from general history study. Had Popkin made a comment somewhere along the lines of , “so a key difference when writing or discussing historiography versus history is the organization of information in more topical ways than by purely chronological order of events, something I have actually done here.” Using that as a preface for this introductory section.
So, the writing was good—despite being repetitive—but the content is really what is most commendable. Without giving a summary of the entire section, the points on modern changes in historiography, using the Holocaust as a way of explaining the relationship between history and historiography, and role of historiography in the course of recorded history throughout history. I initially began this third paragraph in the hopes of directly restating the points I had made previous—word for word—only adding a few original sentences that I had not written previously. Alas, I, in good conscience, could not even bring myself to begin. In all, the work was phenomenally educational, putting things in a perspective I had never considered; allowing me to understand that I had understood what historiography was all along, I simply had no word for it. The main object was to once again critique Popkin’s… inability(?) to state an idea, relate it to a previous comment, and then move on without completely repeating himself word for word.
